
                          _The_ WESTERN COWBOY
                                  and
                        ARABIANS IN THE ROCKIES


                              PRICE $1.00
              Copyright 1948, Trinidad Bean & Elevator Co.
                            Denver, Colorado




                          _The_ WESTERN COWBOY


Call him _bronco buster_, _cowpuncher_, _cattleman_, or just plain
_ranch hand_ ... the western cowboy to those who know him best, has
always been “just a plain, everyday upstandin’ man!” He is courageous
and fearless ... loyal to his outfit and to his friends, and does his
best to live up to the code of his colorful calling.

An oldtimer might tell you that the cowboy’s code calls for “courage and
loyalty, uncomplaining cheerfulness, laughter at danger and hardships,
lack of curiosity regarding another’s past, and respect for womanhood.”

The cowboy may change with the times, but so long as the West raises
cattle he’ll be with us ... riding the range, testing his skill at the
rodeo ... “doin’ his job” as he upholds the proud traditions of the West
and one of its greatest industries ... the cattle business.

    [Illustration: ON THE MOVE]

    [Illustration: Cowboy and lariat]

The cowboy and the horse he rides are the result of a way of life. The
man and the animal have developed together, adapting themselves to a
type of life and work unfamiliar to millions of our present generation.

The dime-novel, two-gun characters of fiction, the movies built around
these stories, and the occasional rodeo performance, are the basis for
the average person’s impressions about the Western cowboy. Overlooked
are the real life and the important daily tasks of these men on
horseback who provide the meat for the nation’s tables.

The cowboy knows no hours. From sunup to sundown, in blizzard, rain and
sunshine, he watches and cares for his herd.

The pioneers who built the cattle business into a tremendous industry
used the saddle for making history. The modern cowboy following in their
path is still using a saddle for a throne from which he upholds a
tradition ... and never will he forsake that saddle for a jalopy to help
him over the rough places.

    [Illustration: ON GUARD]

Probably no other American spends a greater part of his time outdoors
than the Western cowboy. Certainly no other form of activity is so
dependent upon the whims of Nature and animals. A calf may stray among
jagged rocks, and a horse break a leg in recovering him. Rider and horse
are always flirting with danger! Sickness in a herd or among the horses
calls for expert knowledge and kindness. Broken fences, storms, mountain
lions and the elements themselves present problems which to many of us
would seem insurmountable. Gopher holes lurk in hidden places to throw
both horse and rider; turbulent streams with their slippery boulders
must be forded; high ledges and snowy precipices must be traversed under
varying conditions.

Yes, it’s a rugged life and one which calls for strong men with clear
eyes and steady hands. Under these men must be sturdy, sure-footed
horses.

This combination of man and horse has contributed greatly to the
romantic history of America; and, even today, typifies a way of life
unlike any other.

    [Illustration: Boots and spurs]

It’s no wonder that this Western life has developed a strange and
flavorful language of its own ... distinctly different from that used in
other walks of life. It’s natural, too, that special clothing should be
worn. Above all, it is essential that the cowboy’s greatest asset, the
horse, should be specially bred and trained.

There are many of the words of the trail and cow camp in these pages.
You’ll become familiar with the type of clothing worn by the Western
cowboy. Most of all, you’ll see and learn about the magnificent horses
that he rides. At work, at play and in the show ring ... the horse is
dominant!

    [Illustration: HIGH PLACE]

    [Illustration: “A RANCH IS NO BETTER THAN ITS HORSES”]


                           FRIEND AND SERVANT

A good cow horse must possess strength and intelligence, and be well
trained to use both. He has a natural instinct for sensing direction and
detecting danger, both by day and by night. He is game and brave and
will drop dead in the performance of his work, if need be. He is well
adapted to his place ... tough and inured to the hardships of his life.
His lightness of foot and quickness of motion fit him better for this
work than any other type of horse.

    [Illustration: Saddle]

He must have good feet, good limbs, a strong heart and strong lungs to
meet the demands of his work. The cow horse soon learns to know his
rider as they work together, and his good sense is his outstanding
characteristic.

    [Illustration: CLOTHES ARE WORN FOR A PURPOSE]


                          THE COWBOY’S CLOTHES

A generation ago the East knew the cowboy as a bloody demon of disaster,
reckless and rowdy, weighted down with “six guns,” wearing a ten-gallon
hat, bright silk shirt, woolly chaps and clanking spurs. Today, except
for his hat, high-heeled boots and spurs, you’ll find few cowboys in
complete regalia except on show days at the rodeo.

Nowadays, the cowboy wears each garment “a-purpose.” _For example_:

  CHAPS      are worn primarily to protect his legs from high brush,
             cold wind and rain.
  SPURS      are not worn for ornament, neither are they worn to punish;
             the cowboy uses them as “reminders” to help him control his
             horse and urge it to quick action.
  STETSON    the wide-brimmed, high-crowned hat is an earmark of the
             West, has “six times a dozen” everyday uses. It serves as
             shade, protection from the elements, a drinking cup for
             horse and rider, and when waved it’s extremely handy to
             turn stock.
  BOOTS      high-heeled boots are a mark of distinction, the sign of a
             riding man. The high heels keep his feet from slipping
             through the stirrups. The heels also serve as an aid on the
             ground, allowing the cowboy to dig in when he is throwing
             his rope or holding stock.
  GUNS       the cowboy “totes a gun” only for protection against
             Nature’s hazards to his work. The days of the “two-gun man”
             and the “quick-draw artist” have been relegated to the
             realm of the Wild West story and movie.

A cowboy’s working clothes usually consist of sturdy Levis, high-heeled
boots, “Stetson” hat, heavy shirt, and chaps when needed.

    [Illustration: CALF ROPING]


                    A COWBOY’S WORK IS ALSO HIS FUN

The rodeo is purely and exclusively a cowboy’s sport. In fact, it is a
popular sport which originated in America. At first it was simply a
demonstration of the cowboy’s skill, usually performed before other
cowboys. Contesting naturally followed and, of course, such thrilling
exhibitions of skill and courage soon attracted more and more
spectators. Today, rodeos are national and international events. Experts
in bronc riding, calf roping, steer wrestling and bull riding often
pocket prize money amounting to as much as $35,000 in a year.

    [Illustration: Bucking bronco]

Now, regularly scheduled events, staged by popular demand, rodeos are
attracting larger and larger crowds. Be they big or small, a thrilling
performance is assured the spectators.

Bronc riding is one of the most exciting of rodeo events and is always
popular with the cowboy himself. A man who follows the hazardous trade
of horse-breaking as a steady business has to be good. He must have
courage, experience and unusual ability; a good one is hard to find. The
best cow hands can ride the “snuffy” ones, but won’t.

Good bronc riders stay with their horses. When they feel themselves
going they do not throw away the reins, start relaxing and look for a
soft spot to land. With skill, muscle and grim determination they will
wage a desperate battle to stay aboard.

    [Illustration: A “RARE” OCCASION]

More and more cow horses are being broken to ride by patience and
gentleness. Today’s horse is rarely a wild mustang caught on the prairie
and broken by a “buster.” Usually he is of special breeding, intended to
develop him for his particular type of work.

The bucking horse, seen in rodeos, is trained to buck; many of them such
as “Midnight” and “Five Minutes To Midnight” have become world-famous
for their skill at throwing riders.

Usually bucking horses or “broncs” are part of a “string” provided for
rodeo use. Many of these “wild” horses live to a ripe old age and have
many peaceful years grazing in lush pastures long after their bucking
days are over.

    [Illustration: “TWISTIN’ HIM DOWN”]


                              BULL DOGGING

This breathtaking feat consists of a dive from a horse at full gallop to
the horns of a full-grown steer and throwing the animal by hand. One of
the most dangerous stunts in the rodeo business, it also requires
extraordinary strength and agility on the part of the cowboy. The bull
dogger must stop the animal and “twist him down” so that all four feet
are off the ground on the side in which the head is pointed. The record
time for this event is three and two-fifths seconds.

    [Illustration: Cowboy and bull]

Bull dogging is purely an exhibition trick, but it has developed into a
regular rodeo event, with many outstanding bull doggers contesting for
the large prize money offered for it.

    [Illustration: A “ROLLIN’” HORSE]


                         BAREBACK BRONC RIDING

Actually, this is less dangerous than riding a bronc with a saddle, but
more difficult to stay aboard.

Balance is all-important, since the cowboy is without benefit of
stirrups or saddle and must depend upon his knees for controlling his
position on the horse. One hand holds the halter and the other must
swing free, never touching the horse.

Even the good bareback riders are often thrown, but the fall as a rule
is “clean” and results only in the cowboy being thoroughly jarred.

    [Illustration: BIG BRAHMA AND COWBOY PART COMPANY]


                              BULL RIDING

This is an extreme test of balance and courage. Bull riders are usually
“top hands” and represent the cream of fancy riders. Brahma bulls are
ridden with only “bull rigging,” which consists of two ropes, one around
the flank and one serving as a cinch with a bell to irritate and
infuriate the animal. They are always unpredictable and hard to ride.

The Brahma bull’s skin is very loose, like that of a dog, and the rider
must stay on by sheer balance. Oftentimes the bulls become mean and
dangerous unless distracted by a man in the arena. A so-called “clown,”
actually an expert at distracting the bulls, is a part of the rodeo
performance, and it is he who prevents the animals from turning on
thrown cowboys.

Adding to the excitement at these events is the fact that Brahmas can
and do quite often leap an eight-foot fence.


                         MORE TRANQUIL MOMENTS

    [Illustration: Mountain lake]

Not all of a cowboy’s life is rough, back-breaking work or exhibitions.
There are long hours of pleasant sunshine and companionship with
friends, including his “best friend,” his horse.

Moving the cattle to new pastures often brings long, leisurely rides
beneath brilliant sunshine, over sage-scented prairie or along verdant
trails amid the world’s most beautiful scenery. Large ranches now
operate with plenty of help and many modern conveniences. Good food is
essential to a cowboy’s health and happiness, and the wise rancher
provides plenty of it. Comradeship and loyalty are predominant
characteristics of ranch life, and few real cowboys would exchange it
for any other way of life.

    [Illustration: “THE PAUSE THAT REFRESHES”]

    [Illustration: “BEAUTY AND PRIDE”]


                          ALWAYS ... THE HORSE

The very existence of the cowboy revolves around his horse. Proudly he
poses on him, for to be pictured without him would make the cowboy feel
“naked.”

Ranch conversation is mostly of horses; horses do the work, provide the
transportation and the amusement; horses cause many of the trials and
sorrows. Thus the breeding of these intelligent animals is an
ever-interesting, never-ending process.

Most popular among stockmen and cowboys today is the “quarter horse”;
however, there is an increasing demand for horses of part Arabian blood
which are the result of the breeding of purebred Arabian horses to the
native stock. With only around 3500 living Arabs today, it is a lucky
cowboy who gets to own or ride one. The Arabian blood brings to the
cattle pony the spirit, the sturdiness, the courage and, above all, the
great intelligence of the Arab, combined with the “stockiness” of the
range animal ... priceless ingredients in the making of a fine cow
horse. You’ll be particularly interested in the world-famous TRINIDAD
ranch where these gentle Arabians are bred pure.




                              THE ARABIAN


    [Illustration: ZARIFE]

From the hot desert sands of Arabia, the purebred Arab horse has brought
us all of his beauty, affection, strength and glory. For over 4,000
years the Arab steed served the desert Bedouins in peace and war,
ofttimes meaning the difference between life and death for his master.
He lived in the tent of his owner, as a member of the family. In his
noble heart this developed an affection unsurpassed.

Pasture land and water are very scarce in the desert country, but the
Arab horse does not require the food and water of an ordinary
horse—because of his small stomach. This was invaluable to the Bedouin,
who then could travel for days on a fiery charger without sighting
pasture or a water hole. Thus, the Arab has become known to us as
“Drinker of the Wind.”

Although from this courageous lineage have descended all light breeds of
horses known to the world today—the Thoroughbred, Standard Bred,
American Saddle Horse, Morgan, and so on down the line ... still we
cannot tell you the origin of the purebred Arab. That belongs to the dim
and distant past. God gave him to us and is preserving this precious
blood through the generous hearts of a handful of large breeders, mostly
located in the United States.

Why the United States? Because, with the advent of the automobile in
Arabia, the Bedouins learned they could travel faster and farther in
“war cars” than by Arabian horses; so they discontinued the use of
horses in warfare. This resulted in diminishing the breeding of pure
Arabians in the desert. Then, during World War II, many of the large
European Studs, which had been established from desert horses, were
completely demolished.

To give you a word picture of the purebred Arab, the United States
Department of Agriculture, in its bulletin, “Breeds of Light Horses,”
has this to say:

  “A typical Arabian horse has a wedge-shaped head; small nose; dish
  face; wide, deep jaws; eyes set low, wide apart, and near the middle
  of the head; a relatively large brain capacity; one less lumbar
  vertebra than most other horses, giving a short weight-carrying back;
  one or two less vertebrae in the tail, which is set up on a high croup
  and gaily carried; ribs spring wide and deep; large knee, hock, tendon
  and hoof; dense bone; small stomach capacity, with small feed
  requirements and the ability to assimilate rough feed; and a marked
  prepotency in the Stud.

  “Generally the Arabian horse in action shows only the walk, trot, and
  canter. The usual height is from 14 to 15.1 hands, and the weight from
  850 to 1,100 pounds. Bay, gray and chestnut are the predominating
  colors, with an occasional white or black. White marks on the head and
  legs are common, but purebred Arabians are never piebald or spotted,
  notwithstanding an erroneous impression created by circus horses that
  are commonly called Arabians.”

    [Illustration: Arabian tents and horses]

    [Illustration: BLYTHE SPIRIT]

The love for the purebred Arab horse is so great that there are hundreds
of Arab owners, but only a few large breeders. Among these few large
breeders is The Van Vleet Arabian Stud, owned and operated by The
Trinidad Bean & Elevator Company. Started by L.W. Van Vleet, President
of the company, it is located on The Lazy VV Ranch near Nederland,
Colorado. This ranch is now the mountain home of over 90 purebred
Arabians.

The Lazy VV Ranch lies at an altitude of 8,500 to 13,000 feet, in the
heart of the Colorado Rockies. This Arabian Stud was started with a
foundation herd of about 30 head. Today it is the largest stud in our
country, excepting the Remount Depot at Pomona, California, owned by the
government. Trinidad, alone, has probably done as much toward proving
the merits of the Arabian as anyone else in this country.

One of the main purposes of this venture was to prove that the Arabian
horse could adjust himself to any climate and adapt himself to any use,
without injurious effects. So, to the Continental Divide, from the hot
sands of Arabia, the Arab horse has ascended.

Living and working at that high altitude, the Arab is developing greater
wind and lung capacity, harder muscle, denser bone. Plenty of pure
mountain water and native hay are his sustenance. In return, he gives
much! Mares and colts receive no unusual care; are often exposed to
freezing temperatures and trying conditions which require remarkable
stamina.

Many Arab stallions can do twice the work of native stock horses ...
with no signs of fatigue, poor legs, or other bad conditions which will
develop in cold-blooded horses. The Arab is less susceptible to equine
diseases than other breeds, and requires nothing in the way of
pampering.

To know an Arab is to love him ... to love him is to want him. He is a
rare and priceless possession.

    [Illustration: JUST A LITTLE FELLOW]

    [Illustration: Arabian on horseback]

With ears alert for the slightest sound, ZARIFE—head stallion of
Trinidad’s Arabs—depicts everything to be desired in a purebred horse.
At his ripe age, he still participates in the long cattle drives of The
Lazy VV Ranch and holds a major position in the Stud’s extensive
breeding program.

Unlike his desert ancestors, he is never left at home base when there is
active work to be done. Bedouins’ stallions were used for breeding but
not in warfare. A stallion, being much noisier than a mare, would be apt
to disclose the approach to an enemy tribe.

A list of ZARIFE’S colts is as long as your arm. He is represented by
his colts in all parts of the United States today. The insatiable demand
for his blood continues.

Although ZARIFE’S coat is now white, his skin (like that of all purebred
Arabs) is coal black.

    [Illustration: MONARCH OF ALL HE SURVEYS
    ZARIFE—A.H.C. No. 885
    (Bred by Prince Mohamed Aly of Cairo, Egypt, and imported to U.S.A.
    in 1932 at the age of 4 years.)]

    [Illustration: PROUD WORKER
    RIFAGE—A.H.C. No. 1286
    Foaled October 28, 1936]

Nearing the end of a two-day cattle drive, RIFAGE shows no signs of
fatigue. When his sharp ears have assured him no calves are lagging, he
will proceed on the drive. A wayward cow or calf may take him off into
the brush, up a rocky hillside or down to a boggy stream, but he will
get the job done and love doing it.

A son of International Champions, RIFAGE takes up the challenge of every
large-sized man who questions the little stallion’s ability to carry
him. Though only a little over 14 hands high and weighing less than 900
pounds, RIFAGE has easily carried a third of his weight for long hours.
He returns to the Ranch with a dry coat, dancing and prancing; still
ready to go. As much cannot be said about his rider!

RIFAGE, one of Trinidad’s principal stallions, has fathered many fine
colts. His colts are as large or larger than those of other stallions on
The Lazy VV Ranch.

Even during the heaviest of the breeding season, RIFAGE is doing his
share of the necessary work with the cattle. He is really a splendid cow
horse and a favorite of many of the cowboys.

    [Illustration:               HOMEWARD BOUND
                               ZARIFE at far left KABAR at far right]

Approaching the entrance gate of The Lazy VV Ranch, the two-day cattle
drive will soon be over. When cows and calves have had an opportunity to
“mother up” and get several days’ rest, the Arabs will escort them to
the mountain range; there they will pasture for the next few months.

During each week, the stallions you have seen on the foregoing pages
make regular trips to the Continental Divide to check cattle and their
feed. These trips take many hours each day. Perhaps a pastern will be
cut on the edge of some sharp rock; or a shoe may be lost; but these
sturdy, spirited horses will not be stopped or hindered. Their masters
have a job to do; and, as in the days of Arabian warfare, the master’s
most effective ally is his horse.

    [Illustration: Arabian and horse]

The satisfaction any man enjoys from the use and ownership of a fine
horse is doubly enhanced when the animal is an Arabian. Its
dependability, gentleness and loyalty to him are unsurpassed.

    [Illustration:  Like that of his brothers, KABAR’S work
                                 is perfection.]

Branding half over, there is a pause for refreshment! Horses are fed and
watered. All participants at the branding are served some of the Ranch’s
delicious, piping hot Baked Pinto Beans, with pork chops.

    [Illustration: ANTICIPATION]

    [Illustration: AROUND THE BEAN POT]

Yum! Yum! Trinidad Ranch Beans sure taste good. Easy to prepare,
delicious and nourishing ... they “hit the spot” and “stick to the
ribs,” as any cowboy will agree.

    [Illustration: “UP MOUNT BALDY”
    ZARIFE RIFAGE
                                         GAZYL
                                A.H.C. No. 2820
                             Foaled April 26, 1944]

GAZYL has not been mentioned heretofore; but, like his sire ZARIFE, he
is making a good name for himself. Being of light chestnut color, with
flaxen mane and tail, he is being used primarily for breeding
chestnut-colored mares. This is the only true law of color breeding—a
chestnut bred to a chestnut will produce a chestnut colt.

Having driven The Lazy VV cattle to the lower part of the summer
mountain range, these stallions carry their masters to an altitude of
12,500 feet, to check the grazing land and to determine how long the
cattle should be kept in the lower mountain country. This will depend on
the condition of the grass.

This mountainside is steeper than it appears. Study the taut muscles in
the hind quarters. This is the work which builds better bone and muscle
and develops greater lung capacity in Trinidad’s Arabs.

When shipped to low altitudes, mountain-bred Arabs frequently can outdo
the native horses.

    [Illustration: “SHEPHERDING HER BACK”
    KAHAR, A.H.C. No. 1159
    Foaled April 21, 1935]

As does every other stallion in Trinidad’s band of Arabs, this beautiful
bay works hard at rounding up the cattle of The Lazy VV Ranch and
dragging in his share of the calves to be branded.

One day, while gathering the cattle for the branding of the calves,
KAHAR was trailing a wayward cow in a belly-deep, ice-cold mountain
stream. His leg was caught underneath the water by a straggly willow
growth. Too anxious to stay with his chosen bovine victim, KAHAR lost
his footing in that willow growth. His rider landed in the stream and
KAHAR was carried fifty feet away in the swift water before he gained
his footing and climbed up the muddy bank, shivering. Did he run away
from his rider? No, he walked slowly back to the spot where he entered
the stream and waited for his water-soaked rider to mount again and take
up the chase.

KAHAR’S beauty is readily detected in the colts he sires. For the most
part, those colts are out of daughters of RIFAGE, which are
grand-daughters of ZARIFE.

    [Illustration: Horse at desert oasis]

Because of the scarcity of water in Arabia, the Arab horse who spoiled
it was punished, of necessity. This respect for water has been so deeply
bred into the Arab that it takes a bit of training to change him.

Though small rations of water were the fate of desert Arabs, on The Lazy
VV Ranch a horse can bathe in it—as shown by KABAR, who unhesitatingly
trails a cow and two calves through a belly-deep stream.

KABAR is typical of the horse desired by ranchers and stockmen. He is
what is known as the “strong type” Arab. The other two types are the
“beautiful” and the “racing.” ZARIFE, RIFAGE and KAHAR belong in the
“beautiful” classification. The only “racing” type stallion raised on
The Lazy VV Ranch was BAREK, who is making his home with the Mexican
Government in Mexico City.

Most of the stud colts sired by KABAR have been sold to individual
ranchers, who are using them to produce better stock horses.

    [Illustration: “WHERE YOU GO ... WE GO”
    KABAR—A.H.C. No. 748
    Foaled April 19, 1930]

    [Illustration: MAMAS AND THEIR BABIES]

The life of an Arab mare on The Lazy VV Ranch differs greatly from her
desert sisters’ existence. In the desert, a mare carried her master in
tribal warfare, while the stallions stayed at home.

Any mare without a colt at her side is assigned the task of taking Lazy
VV Ranch riders over the high, rocky mountain trails. Brood mares are
left in the lush pastures to frolic and play with their colts. However,
not even the brood mares are coddled; they live and graze in the rugged
outdoors, year-round. Lazy VV Arabs must learn to care for themselves.

At the age of one year, these Arabs are halter broken; at two, they are
trained on the longe line, and some are driven; at three, they are
trained under saddle. Mares of sufficient size are bred at the age of
three, and every year thereafter.

    [Illustration: A TYPICAL LAZY VV ARAB MARE AND HER FILLY COLT]

    [Illustration: Since Bedouins rode their brood mares in warfare
    right up to foaling date, this little stud colt, if born during such
    a raid, would have been destroyed immediately. Happily, at The Lazy
    VV, he receives gentle care.]

    [Illustration: From a far end of one Lazy VV pasture, this little
    girl brought some yearling fillies by calling and rattling the feed
    bucket. They are determined to feed, but she can’t let them know
    they were fooled.]

    [Illustration: Hat and lariat]

    [Illustration: FRIENDLY TWO-YEAR-OLD FILLIES CRAVE COMPANIONSHIP]

From the day it is born, a Lazy VV Arab knows nothing but love and
affection. The horse trainers have often said it is a “snap” to
halter-break a yearling Arab, because he is so used to arms encircling
his neck.

Everyone is encouraged to play with and become acquainted with the
Arabs. Such treatment brings out the innate affection of this breed.

    [Illustration: AFFECTIONATE FRIEND]

Curious, too! Realizing the friendship of man, they will investigate
anything new and can make a job hard to accomplish. One colt
investigates Jack Kuhne’s camera, when he really wants to get the colt’s
picture for “Sons of Courage.” This technicolor short was made for 20th
Century-Fox, and is still showing throughout the country. Also still
showing is “Arabians in the Rockies,” the technicolor short released by
Warner Bros.

    [Illustration: INQUISITIVE, ISN’T HE!]

    [Illustration: WINTER FROLIC]

When snow covers the pastures, the mares and colts are more anxious than
ever for feeding time.

After these heavy snowfalls, RIFAGE must satisfy himself that all are
present and in good shape, for some of these colts are his.

    [Illustration: WORK KNOWS NO SEASON]

    [Illustration: SUNDAY SHOW]

Soon after Trinidad established its pure Arab Stud on The Lazy VV Ranch,
numerous people would stop by the Ranch with the hope they could “just
look at those Arabian horses.” These callers interrupted the routine
ranch work to such a degree that the decision was reached to set aside
Sunday morning, at which time the public might see the Arabs in various
phases of action.

These Sunday morning crowds outgrew the three stands which were
originally built to accommodate 150 spectators. The remaining hundreds
willingly stand around the railing from 9:45 until 11:30 A.M., to view
these gorgeous creatures going through their paces. This opportunity is
only provided during the three months of summer—mid-June through August.

Crowds prove the education is worth the discomfort. There is probably no
place in this country where a person can see so many Arabs, or learn
more about them during a two-hour period than by listening to the
announced comments and other information which is given as the Arabs are
shown.

It is truly a colorful spectacle to see 1,500 people from all walks of
life, dressed in varied attire, so intent and interested as they
encircle the Arab horse show ring at The Lazy VV.

    [Illustration: POETRY IN MOTION]

Though authentic in cut, these Bedouin robes are not authentic in color.
Bright greens, reds, blues and gold add a sparkle to the Sunday showing
of the Arabs, while the Bedouins would be donning drab gray or brown
colors.

Lazy VV Arabs are not groomed and put up in stalls a day or so before
the Sunday crowds see them. These are the same horses that work the
cattle, make the various trips over rough mountain trails, or romp and
play in pastures during the week.

    [Illustration: SHOW-OFF]

    [Illustration: MASTER AND MIGHTY STEED]

Festive desert robes are donned to lend atmosphere and color to the
Sunday showing. Simulating their ancestors of 2,000 years ago, the Arabs
carry the riders of The Lazy VV in true Arabian style. Cameras click and
spectators thrill with joy as these jaunty “Arabians” charge into the
ring.

    [Illustration: DESERT HORSEMEN]

    [Illustration: THE “BOSS”]

L. W. Van Vleet, President of The Trinidad Bean and Elevator Co., does
the announcing and tells the Sunday show crowds about the purebred Arab.
This takes time and research, but the pure Arab is worthy of proper
presentation.

    [Illustration: CRADLED AT THE FOOT OF THE DIVIDE]


                   THE LAZY VV RANCH AND ITS SETTING

If you would care to read more about Trinidad’s purebred Arabs, and
their home on The Lazy VV Ranch, perhaps your local library can furnish
you with the following publications:

  Christian Science Monitor—September, 1942
  Travel Magazine—October, 1943
  Country Gentleman—January, 1944
  Liberty—November, 1945
  The Horse—March-April, 1944
  The Horse—November-December, 1945
  The Horse—May-June, 1947
  The National Horseman—May, 1948
  Denver Post Empire Magazine—June, 1949
  Travel—July, 1949
  Flair—July, 1950

Also you might prevail upon your local theater manager to arrange a
showing of the beautiful technicolor shorts which were made on The Lazy
VV Ranch. In them you will see the purebred Arabs at work.

  “Arabians in the Rockies” was released by Warner Bros. in January of
              1946.
  “Sons of Courage” was released by 20th Century-Fox in February of
              1947.
  “Kings of the Rockies” was released by Warner Bros. in January of
              1950.

These movies are still showing throughout the country. If you haven’t
seen them, you should have an opportunity to do so.


                           Just a Word About
                          TRINIDAD RANCH BEANS

Purchased in all Western growing areas, TRIAD RANCH BEANS are carefully
cleaned, sorted and graded. Always select quality, they are identified
by the famous COOKQUIK trademark which assures you of easy preparation
and good eating.

Delicious recipes are printed on all cartons to enable you to cook these
beans the way the cowboys like ’em, the way everyone likes ’em!

Ranch beans “stick to the ribs,” contain the same nutritional elements
found in meat ... at a much lower cost. Remember, there are hundreds of
ways you can enjoy them!

All of the following varieties are available in one-pound cartons or
sturdy, sealed, one and two-pound cellophane bags:

  PINTOS
  GREAT NORTHERNS
  SMALL REDS
  SMALL WHITES
  LARGE LIMAS
  BABY LIMAS
  BLACKEYES
  PINKS
  CRANBERRIES
  RED KIDNEYS

                                Also ask for
                     TRIAD RANCH WASHINGTON-IDAHO PEAS

  WHOLE GREEN PEAS
  GREEN SPLIT PEAS
  WHOLE WHITE PEAS
  YELLOW SPLIT PEAS
  FANCY LENTILS

    [Illustration: Bucking bronco]

    [Illustration: PACKED FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE]




                     OTHER PREMIUMS YOU’LL ENJOY[1]


For 5 box tops from COOKQUIK TRIAD RANCH Cartons, or 5 empty COOKQUIK
TRIAD Cellophane Bags, and 25 cents, you may have your choice of—

  ⇒1 One of a series of beautiful pictures, suitable for framing, of The
  Lazy VV Ranch and its Arabs.

  ⇒2 A bright, colorful, Round-Up Bandana—just like the Cowboys and
  Cowgirls wear.

     BE SURE TO STATE WHICH PREMIUM YOU PREFER WHEN MAILING IN YOUR
                                REQUEST.


                              _Thank You_

  _It has been a pleasure to bring you this picture-and-story book of
  Western Cowboys and Arabians in the Rockies._

  _We are very proud of this Western land, our products and our horses.
  It is believed that you, too, will experience pleasure in learning
  about them._


                  THE TRINIDAD BEAN & ELEVATOR COMPANY
                          820 COOPER BUILDING
                           DENVER 2, COLORADO

    [Illustration:     _Cookquik_ TRIAD RANCH BEANS-PEAS]


[1]Does not apply in states where such offers are prohibited by law.


    [Illustration: Ranch logo]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Western Cowboy and Arabians in the
Rockies, by Anonymous

